generating 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010. China is the largest 
hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of production in 2010, 
representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use.The cost of 
hydroelectricity is relatively low, making it a competitive source of renewable 
electricity. The average cost of electricity from a hydro station larger than 
10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour. It is also a flexible source 
of electricity since the amount produced by the station can be changed up or down 
very quickly to adapt to changing energy demands.

	Hydroelectricity eliminates the flue gas emissions from fossil fuel 
combustion, including pollutants such as sulfur dioxide, nitric oxide, carbon monoxide, 
dust, and mercury in the coal. Hydroelectricity also avoids the hazards of coal mining 
and the indirect health effects of coal emissions. Compared to nuclear power, 
hydroelectricity generates no nuclear waste, has none of the dangers associated with 
uranium mining, nor nuclear leaks.

	However, damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can harm local ecosystems, 
and building large dams and reservoirs often involves displacing people and wildlife. 
Hydroelectric projects can be disruptive to surrounding aquatic ecosystems both upstream 
and downstream of the plant site. Large reservoirs required for the operation of 
hydroelectric power stations result in submersion of extensive areas upstream of the dams,
destroying biologically rich and productive lowland and riverine valley forests, 
marshland and grasslands. The loss of land is often exacerbated by habitat fragmentation of 
surrounding areas caused by the reservoir. 

	Because large conventional dammed-hydro facilities hold back large volumes of water, 
a failure due to poor construction, natural disasters or sabotage can be catastrophic to 
downriver settlements and infrastructure. Dam failures have been some of the largest man-made 
disasters in history. The Banqiao Dam failure in Southern China directly resulted in the 
deaths of 26,000 people, and another 145,000 from epidemics. Millions were left homeless. 
